Programming
1.	 Set days of regeneration on skipper wheel (Figure 11).
• Pull all skipper pins outward (away from control).
• Rotate skipper wheel until day arrow points to current 
day or number 1.
• Depress skipper pin(s) at day(s) for which regeneration  
is desired.
2.	 Set the time of day.
• Grasp timer knob and pull outward.
• Rotate in either direction until the timer arrow points to 
the actual time of day.
• Release timer knob.
NOTE:  	 With the time of day properly set, the conditioner will 
regenerate at about 2:30 a.m. If you prefer to have the 
unit regenerate at an earlier or later time, simply set 
current time-of-day accordingly (e.g., to have the unit 
regenerate at 4:30 a.m.—two hours later—set the 
clock two hours earlier than the actual time of day.)
NOTE:  	 The Timer Locking Pin should always be horizontal 
(Figure 11) during operation.
460i Control
Transformer 
Plug Receptacle
Hour Time Display
Access Door
Water Flow Indicator
Time Set Button
Raised Tab
Indicator Knob
Timer 
Locking Pin
PM Indicator
Spare Jumper
Jumper
Figure 11  
Programming
Plug the wall-mount transformer into a functioning electrical 
outlet that is not controlled by a switch. Plug the transformer 
into the transformer plug receptacle on the control.
Open the access door by pushing the raised tab on the door 
toward the left while pulling the tab out (Figure 12).
Time of Day Setting
With the jumper on the set of pins next to the word TIME 
(Figure 13), set the time of day to the closest hour by pressing 
the black TIME SET button. PM hours are indicated by a light 
next to the letters PM on the display window.
NOTE:  	 The use of a small needle-nose pliers will aid in 
moving the jumper.
NOTE:  	 The unit is factory set to regenerate at 2:00 a.m. If 
you prefer to have the unit regenerate at an earlier 
or later time, simply set the current time of day 
accordingly (e.g., to have the unit regenerate at 4:00 
a.m.—two hours later—set the clock two hours 
earlier than the actual time of day).
NOTE:  	 The Timer Locking Pin should always be horizontal 
(Figure 12) during operation.
Hardness Setting
Move the jumper to the set of pins next to the word HARDNESS 
(Figure 14). Press the black TIME SET button until the 
hardness of the incoming water supply is displayed. The 
hardness range is from 1 to 99 grains per gallon.
To change water hardness stated in parts per million (PPM) to 
grains per gallon (GPG) use this formula:
Parts per Million
=
Grains Per Gallon
17.1
Figure 12   
Figure 13   
Figure 14   
Capacity Setting
Move the jumper to the set of pins next to the word CAPACITY 
(Figure 15). Press the black TIME SET button until the correct 
capacity value is displayed. The capacity range is 1 to 99 
kilograins. Refer to the Suggested Salt Dial Settings table.
Return the jumper to the top set of pins next to the word TIME 
and replace the access door. The jumper must NOT be left 
on any pins other than the top pair next to the word TIME. 
Otherwise, the unit may show a blank display.
NOTE:  	 A spare jumper is located on the bottom set of pins. 
In the event that the hardness or capacity setting 
must be changed, simply follow the appropriate steps 
described above.
Calendar Override Setting
1.	 Disconnect power.
2.	 Place jumper on Pin A and reconnect power.
3.	 Move jumper to Pin B. A zero will appear, indicating 
zero days of calendar override. All 460i controllers are 
preprogrammed in this manner at the manufacturer.
4.	 Depress the black TIME SET button. The numbers will roll 
from “0” to “15.” Release the switch at the desired number 
of days for the calendar override. For example, releasing 
the switch at “10” would program a 10-day  
calendar override.
5.	 Disconnect power.
6.	 Place jumper back on TIME and reconnect power.
7.	 The calendar override program is maintained during power 
outages by the NOVRAM circuitry.
8.	 To remove the calendar override, follow the same steps 
above and program back to “0.”
PROGRAMMING continued
Autotrol
® 255 Valve/400 Series Service Manual • 7
