Increasing the Length of the Transformer Cord
If it is necessary to extend the length of the transformer cord, 
an optional 15 foot (4.6 m) extension is available  
(see Figure 9).
Figure 8  
SYSTEM STARTUP
Initial Startup
After the water conditioning system is installed, the 
conditioner should be disinfected before it is used to treat 
potable water. Refer to the Disinfection of Water Conditioners 
section in this manual. Complete the following steps to place 
the conditioner into operation:
1.	 Remove control valve cover.
NOTE:  	 The following steps will require turning the indicator 
knob (Figure 11) to various positions. Insert a 
wide-blade screwdriver into arrow slot in indicator 
knob and press in firmly. With knob held in, rotate 
COUNTERCLOCKWISE only until arrow or knob points 
to desired position. Rotation is made much easier if 
you grasp the camshaft with your free hand and turn it 
at the same time. Then permit knob to spring back out.
2.	 Insert screwdriver into slot in indicator knob (Figure 11). 
Press in and rotate knob COUNTERCLOCKWISE until arrow 
points directly to the word BACKWASH.
3.	 Fill resin tank with water.
a.	 With water supply off, place the bypass valve(s) into the 
“NOT IN BYPASS” position.
b.	 Open water supply valve very slowly to approximately 
the 1/4 open position.
IMPORTANT: If opened too rapidly or too far, resin may be lost. 
In this position, you should hear air escaping slowly from the 
drain line.
c.	 When all of the air has been purged from the tank 
(water begins to flow steadily from the drain), open the 
water supply valve all the way.
d.	 Allow water to run to drain until clear.
e.	 Turn off water supply and let the unit stand for about 
five minutes. This will allow all trapped air to escape 
from the tank.
4.	 Add water to brine tank (initial fill). With a bucket or hose, 
add approximately 4 gallons (15 liters) of water to brine 
tank. If the tank has a salt platform above the bottom of the 
tank, add water until the level is approximately 1 inch  
(25 mm) above the platform.
EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION continued
Brine Line
Air Check
Figure 9  - Control Valve
5.	 Put into operation.
a.	 Open water supply valve slowly to full open position.
b.	 Carefully advance indicator knob 
COUNTERCLOCKWISE to center of FAST RINSE/REFILL 
position and hold there until air check (Figure 10) fills 
with water and water starts to flow through brine line 
into brine tank. Do not run for more than two minutes.
c.	 Advance indicator knob COUNTERCLOCKWISE until 
arrow points to the center of the BRINE/SLOW  
RINSE position.
d.	 With the conditioner in this position, check to see if 
water is being drawn from the brine tank. The water 
level in the brine tank will recede very slowly. Observe 
for at least three minutes. If the water level does not 
recede or goes up, or if air enters the transparent air 
check chamber and the ball falls and seats, reference 
Troubleshooting section.
e.	 Advance indicator knob COUNTERCLOCKWISE to 
CONDITIONED WATER.
f.	
Run water from a nearby faucet until the water is clear 
and soft.
PROGRAMMING
440i Control (obsolete)
Timer Knob
Day Arrow
Skipper Pins
Skipper Wheel
Indicator Knob
Timer 
Locking Pin
Time Arrow
Figure 10  
6 • Autotrol
® 255 Valve/400 Series Service Manual
