Guest Cycle (Manual Regeneration)
When abnormally high water usage exhausts your 
water conditioner’s capacity ahead of schedule, an extra 
regeneration can be achieved. Depress the indicator knob on 
the 440i (Figure 11) with a wide-blade screwdriver and turn 
COUNTERCLOCKWISE to START to initiate a regeneration. 
For the 460i, simply depress the indicator knob (Figure 12). 
It will take a few minutes for regeneration to start. A normal 
regeneration will take approximately two hours.
SERVICE AND Maintenance
Inspect and clean brine tank and screen filter on end of brine 
pickup tube once a year or when sediment appears in the 
bottom of the brine tank.
Clean injector screen and injector once a year:
1.	 Unplug the wall-mount transformer.
2.	 Shut off water supply or put bypass valve(s) into  
bypass position.
3.	 Relieve system pressure by opening valve No. 5 (at rear) 
with a screwdriver.
4.	 Using a screwdriver, remove injector screen and injector 
cap (Figure 16).
5.	 Clean screen using a fine brush. Flush until clean.
6.	 Using a needle-nose pliers, pull injector straight out.
7.	 Flush water into the injector screen recess of the valve 
body to flush debris out through the injector recess.
8.	 Clean and flush the injector.
9.	 Lubricate the o-rings on the injector, injector cap and 
injector screen with silicone lubricant.
10.	Reinstall the injector, injector cap and injector screen. See 
IMPORTANT note.
11.	Plug the wall-mount transformer into outlet; reset time  
of day.
12.	Slowly open water supply valve or return bypass valve(s) to 
the “not in bypass” position.
IMPORTANT: Do not overtighten the plastic cap. Seat the cap 
lightly into position. Overtightening may cause breakage of the 
plastic cap that may not be immediately evident.
Screen
Injector
Injector Cap
Figure 20  
Disinfection Of Water Conditioners
The materials of construction of the modern water conditioner 
will not support bacterial growth, nor will these materials 
contaminate a water supply. During normal use, a conditioner 
may become fouled with organic matter, or in some cases with 
bacteria from the water supply. This may result in an off-taste 
or odor in the water.
Some conditioners may need to be disinfected after 
installation and some conditioners will require periodic 
disinfection during their normal life.
Depending upon the conditions of use, the style of conditioner, 
the type of ion exchanger, and the disinfectant available, a 
choice can be made among the following methods.
Sodium or Calcium Hypochlorite Application
These materials are satisfactory for use with polystyrene 
resins, synthetic gel zeolite, greensand and bentonites.
5.25% Sodium Hypochlorite
These solutions are commonly known as household bleach. 
If stronger solutions are used, such as those sold for 
commercial laundries, adjust the dosage accordingly.
1.	 Dosage
g.	 Polystyrene resin; 1.2 fluid ounce (35.5 ml) per  
cubic foot.
h.	 Non-resinous exchangers; 0.8 fluid ounce (23.7 ml) per 
cubic foot.
2.	 Brine tank conditioners
a.	 Backwash the conditioner and add the required 
amount of hypochlorite solution to the well of the 
regenerant tank. The regenerant tank should have 
water in it to permit the solution to be carried into the 
conditioner.
b.	 Proceed with the normal regeneration.
Calcium Hypochlorite
Calcium hypochlorite, 70% available chlorine, is available in 
several forms including tablets and granules. These solid 
materials may be used directly without dissolving before use.
1.	 Dosage
a.	 Two grains (approximately 0.1 ounce [3 ml]) per  
cubic foot.
2.	 Regenerant tank conditioners
a.	 Backwash the conditioner and add the required 
amount of hypochlorite to the well of the regenerant 
tank. The regenerant tank should have water in it to 
permit the chlorine solution to be carried into the 
conditioner.
b.	 Proceed with the normal regeneration.
PROGRAMMING continued
Autotrol
® 255 Valve/400 Series Service Manual • 9
