Troubleshooting
The technology upon which the Series 255 control is based 
is well established and proven in service over many years. 
However, should a problem or question arise regarding 
the operation of the system, the control can be very easily 
serviced. The control module can be quickly replaced or 
adjustments can be made at the installation. We recommend 
that you contact your local professional water treatment dealer 
for most concerns. For parts mentioned, refer to exploded 
views in the Replacement Parts section of this manual.
IMPORTANT: Service procedures that require the water 
pressure to be removed from the system are marked with a ! 
after the possible cause. Refer to Preventative Maintenance 
section for instructions.
Valve Troubleshooting
Problem
Cause 
Correction
Brine tank overflow.
Uncontrolled brine refill flow rate.
Remove brine control to clean ball and seat.
Air leak in brine line to air check.
Check all connections in brine line for leaks. Refer 
to instructions.
Drain control clogged with resin or other 
debris.
Clean drain control.
Flowing or dripping water 
at drain or brine line after 
regeneration.
Valve stem return spring weak.
Replace spring. (Contact dealer.)
Hard water leakage after 
regeneration.
Improper regeneration.
Repeat regeneration after making certain correct 
salt dosage was set.
Leaking of external bypass valve.
Replace bypass valve. (Contact dealer.)
O-ring around riser pipe damaged.
Replace o-ring. (Contact dealer.)
Control will not draw brine.
Low water pressure.
Make correct setting according to instructions.
Restricted drain line.
Remove restriction.
Injector plugged !
Clean injector and screen.
Injector defective !
Replace injector and cap. (Contact dealer.)
Valve disc 2 and/or 3 not closed.
Remove foreign matter from disc and check disc for 
closing by pushing in on stem. Replace if needed. 
(Contact dealer.)
Air check valve prematurely closed.
Put control momentarily into brine refill. Replace or 
repair air check if needed. (Contact dealer.)
14 • Autotrol
® 255 Valve/400 Series Service Manual
